docs/workflow/code-review.md, before:

# Automatic code review

Ensure modified code complies with our project conventions. Be ultra critical.

First read lint rules to ensure feedback doesn't contradict them @/eslint.config.mjs Don't force the user to change code when there is no other solution that will satisfy the lint rules. Example: never suggest using the 'as' or 'let' keywords which are banned.

## Architecture, modularity check

Check all production code files (not test files) against the following conventions:

Read @/docs/architecture/overview.md
Read @/docs/conventions/codebase-structure.md

Ensure that all code is in the correct place and aligns with boundaries and layering requirements. Look at each line of code and ask "What is the purpose of this code? Is it related to other code? Is it highly cohesive? Should it really be here or would it fit better somewhere else?"

### Vertical Slice Organization

Check for type-based organization patterns that violate the "organize by usage" principle.

**Detection patterns:**
- Folders named: `types/`, `models/`, `validators/`, `assertions/`, `schemas/`, `interfaces/`
- Files named: `types.ts`, `models.ts`, `validators.ts`, `assertions.ts`, `schemas.ts`, `interfaces.ts`
- Any folder or file that groups items by category rather than by what uses them together

**When found:**
1. Trace where each item is actually used
2. Identify which items are used together vs separately
3. Propose a specific alternative structure with concrete file moves
4. Only report if you can propose a better alternative

If you cannot find a reasonable alternative, the current structure may be acceptable.

**Exception:** Test fixtures shared across multiple test files.

```plaintext
Organization Violation: Type-based grouping detected
Principle: Organize by usage, not by type (codebase-structure.md)
Code: [show folder/file structure]
Current: [describe what exists]
Alternative: [propose specific restructure with file moves]
Why better: [explain how alternative groups by usage]
Optional?: No - code that's used together should live together
```

```plaintext
Architecture or modularity violation: [title of violation]
Relevant convention: [reference rule]
Affected Code: [show code and line number]
Suggested Fix: [suggested fix (if any)]
Optional?: [Is it mandatory to fix this problem or is there room for debate?]
```

## Coding Standards

Check all production code files (not test files) against the following conventions:

Read @/docs/conventions/software-design.md
Read @/docs/conventions/standard-patterns.md

Report any errors or improvement opportunities in the format:

```plaintext
Coding Standards Violation or improvement opportunity: [title of violation]
Relevant convention: [reference rule]
Affected Code: [show code and line number]
Suggested Fix: [suggested fix (if any)]
Optional?: [Is it mandatory to fix this problem or is there room for debate?]
```

## Testing Standards

Check all test files (not production code) against the following conventions:

Read: @/docs/conventions/testing.md
- tests should not contain code comments ever - they're banned. Hard fail, not optional.

Report any errors in the format:

```plaintext
Testing Standards Violation: [title of violation]
Rule Violated: [reference rule]
Relevant Code: [show code and line number]
Suggested Fix: [suggested fix (if any)]
Optional?: [Is it mandatory to fix this problem or is there room for debate?]
```

### Skipping test coverage

Check for `/* v8 ignore next -- @preserve */` which skips test coverage for specific lines of code.

There may be exceptional cases where this is necessary because code is unreachable but is needed to satisfy the compiler. However, in most cases the problem can be solved by extracting code or writing tests to mock behaviour (or a combination of both.). Provide suggestions.

## No Dangerous Fallback Values

Pay extra special attention to dangerous fallback values that hide bugs. Claude Code loves setting default fallbacks.

❌ **Forbidden:**
- `value ?? 'default'` (without clear reason)
- `value || 'fallback'` (same)
- Guessing at defaults when value should be required

✅ **Allowed:**
- Optional parameters with documented defaults
- Configuration with explicit optional semantics
- Test data with placeholder values

**Examples:**

```typescript
const nodeType = config.nodeType ?? 'sync'

const radius = calculateRadius(node) ?? 15

validateSchema(data).catch(() => {})
```

**Why:** If a value is required, make it required. Don't hide missing data.

You must provide detailed feedback explaining why you believe the default value is dangerous in the current context and propose a better solution.

## Anti-Patterns

Check production code against @/docs/conventions/anti-patterns.md

```plaintext
Anti-Pattern Violation: [title]
Pattern: [reference from anti-patterns.md]
Code: [show code and line number]
Fix: [what to do instead]
Has Exception Comment?: [Yes/No]
```

Hard failure unless documented exception exists.

## Brand Identity & Design Consistency

All UI must conform to the project's brand identity. Design elements—colors, typography, spacing—must come from centralized sources, not ad-hoc values scattered through components.

**Why:** Consistent brand identity requires single sources of truth. When values are hardcoded in components, they drift from the brand, resist theme changes, and create maintenance burden.

**Brand documentation hierarchy:**
1. `/docs/brand/` — Global brand identity (colors, typography, icons). Applies to ALL UIs.
2. `/apps/[app]/docs/brand/` — App-specific extensions only (e.g., Éclair component specs)

**Implementation sources:**
- CSS custom properties: `var(--primary)`, `var(--accent)`, etc.
- Centralized constants derived from brand docs (e.g., component type colors in `types.ts`)

**Detection:** Search modified files for hardcoded values that bypass the design system:
- Hex colors: `#[0-9A-Fa-f]{6}`

**Exception:** Test files may use literal values for assertions.

```plaintext
Brand Violation: [element type] bypasses design system
Principle: Design values must come from centralized brand sources
Code: [show code and line number]
Fix: [use CSS variable / constant, or add to brand docs if new value needed]
Exception?: [Yes/No]
```

Hard failure. Design consistency is not optional.

## Duplicated code

Claude Code has a very bad habit of duplicating code. If near-identical code is duplicated more than twice then it must be addressed even if it requires touching files not part of the current change set (Claude Code will look for excuses to weasel out - be strict)

Don't spend too long looking across the whole codebase for duplicated code but do look in related files that might contain the same code and do use search patterns that can identify duplication quickly.

## Shell Scripts

Check all `.sh` files against these patterns:

### JSON Construction

When building JSON in bash, use `jq` instead of manual string escaping. Manual escaping typically misses backslashes, newlines, and tabs.

**Bad:** Manual escaping (incomplete)
```bash
BODY="${MESSAGE//\"/\\\"}"
gh api ... --field body="$BODY"
```

**Good:** Use jq for JSON construction
```bash
BODY=$(jq -n --arg msg "$MESSAGE" '{body: $msg}')
gh api ... --input - <<< "$BODY"
```

### Unused Variables

Flag any variables that are extracted or assigned but never used.

```plaintext
Shell Script Violation: Unused variable
Code: [show variable assignment and lack of usage]
Fix: Remove the variable or use it
```

## Suggest updates

How can we update our coding conventions, documents and processes to prevent the type of errors you've identified? Provide suggestions if they seem relevant and useful.

## Workflow Reminder

After addressing any issues above, complete the task by following `docs/workflow/task-workflow.md` → Completing Tasks.

Commit message:

chore: add architecture skills to review

docs/workflow/code-review.md, after:

# Automatic code review

Ensure modified code complies with our project conventions. Be ultra critical.

First read lint rules to ensure feedback doesn't contradict them @/eslint.config.mjs Don't force the user to change code when there is no other solution that will satisfy the lint rules. Example: never suggest using the 'as' or 'let' keywords which are banned.

## Architecture, modularity check

Check all production code files (not test files) against the following conventions:

Read @/docs/architecture/overview.md
Read @/docs/conventions/codebase-structure.md

Ensure that all code is in the correct place and aligns with boundaries and layering requirements. Look at each line of code and ask "What is the purpose of this code? Is it related to other code? Is it highly cohesive? Should it really be here or would it fit better somewhere else?"

Load and aply the following skills:
  - development-skills:separation-of-concerns
  - development-skills:tactical-ddd

### Vertical Slice Organization

Check for type-based organization patterns that violate the "organize by usage" principle.

**Detection patterns:**
- Folders named: `types/`, `models/`, `validators/`, `assertions/`, `schemas/`, `interfaces/`
- Files named: `types.ts`, `models.ts`, `validators.ts`, `assertions.ts`, `schemas.ts`, `interfaces.ts`
- Any folder or file that groups items by category rather than by what uses them together

**When found:**
1. Trace where each item is actually used
2. Identify which items are used together vs separately
3. Propose a specific alternative structure with concrete file moves
4. Only report if you can propose a better alternative

If you cannot find a reasonable alternative, the current structure may be acceptable.

**Exception:** Test fixtures shared across multiple test files.

```plaintext
Organization Violation: Type-based grouping detected
Principle: Organize by usage, not by type (codebase-structure.md)
Code: [show folder/file structure]
Current: [describe what exists]
Alternative: [propose specific restructure with file moves]
Why better: [explain how alternative groups by usage]
Optional?: No - code that's used together should live together
```

```plaintext
Architecture or modularity violation: [title of violation]
Relevant convention: [reference rule]
Affected Code: [show code and line number]
Suggested Fix: [suggested fix (if any)]
Optional?: [Is it mandatory to fix this problem or is there room for debate?]
```

## Coding Standards

Check all production code files (not test files) against the following conventions:

Read @/docs/conventions/software-design.md
Read @/docs/conventions/standard-patterns.md

Report any errors or improvement opportunities in the format:

```plaintext
Coding Standards Violation or improvement opportunity: [title of violation]
Relevant convention: [reference rule]
Affected Code: [show code and line number]
Suggested Fix: [suggested fix (if any)]
Optional?: [Is it mandatory to fix this problem or is there room for debate?]
```

## Testing Standards

Check all test files (not production code) against the following conventions:

Read: @/docs/conventions/testing.md
- tests should not contain code comments ever - they're banned. Hard fail, not optional.

Report any errors in the format:

```plaintext
Testing Standards Violation: [title of violation]
Rule Violated: [reference rule]
Relevant Code: [show code and line number]
Suggested Fix: [suggested fix (if any)]
Optional?: [Is it mandatory to fix this problem or is there room for debate?]
```

### Skipping test coverage

Check for `/* v8 ignore next -- @preserve */` which skips test coverage for specific lines of code.

There may be exceptional cases where this is necessary because code is unreachable but is needed to satisfy the compiler. However, in most cases the problem can be solved by extracting code or writing tests to mock behaviour (or a combination of both.). Provide suggestions.

## No Dangerous Fallback Values

Pay extra special attention to dangerous fallback values that hide bugs. Claude Code loves setting default fallbacks.

❌ **Forbidden:**
- `value ?? 'default'` (without clear reason)
- `value || 'fallback'` (same)
- Guessing at defaults when value should be required

✅ **Allowed:**
- Optional parameters with documented defaults
- Configuration with explicit optional semantics
- Test data with placeholder values

**Examples:**

```typescript
const nodeType = config.nodeType ?? 'sync'

const radius = calculateRadius(node) ?? 15

validateSchema(data).catch(() => {})
```

**Why:** If a value is required, make it required. Don't hide missing data.

You must provide detailed feedback explaining why you believe the default value is dangerous in the current context and propose a better solution.

## Anti-Patterns

Check production code against @/docs/conventions/anti-patterns.md

```plaintext
Anti-Pattern Violation: [title]
Pattern: [reference from anti-patterns.md]
Code: [show code and line number]
Fix: [what to do instead]
Has Exception Comment?: [Yes/No]
```

Hard failure unless documented exception exists.

## Brand Identity & Design Consistency

All UI must conform to the project's brand identity. Design elements—colors, typography, spacing—must come from centralized sources, not ad-hoc values scattered through components.

**Why:** Consistent brand identity requires single sources of truth. When values are hardcoded in components, they drift from the brand, resist theme changes, and create maintenance burden.

**Brand documentation hierarchy:**
1. `/docs/brand/` — Global brand identity (colors, typography, icons). Applies to ALL UIs.
2. `/apps/[app]/docs/brand/` — App-specific extensions only (e.g., Éclair component specs)

**Implementation sources:**
- CSS custom properties: `var(--primary)`, `var(--accent)`, etc.
- Centralized constants derived from brand docs (e.g., component type colors in `types.ts`)

**Detection:** Search modified files for hardcoded values that bypass the design system:
- Hex colors: `#[0-9A-Fa-f]{6}`

**Exception:** Test files may use literal values for assertions.

```plaintext
Brand Violation: [element type] bypasses design system
Principle: Design values must come from centralized brand sources
Code: [show code and line number]
Fix: [use CSS variable / constant, or add to brand docs if new value needed]
Exception?: [Yes/No]
```

Hard failure. Design consistency is not optional.

## Duplicated code

Claude Code has a very bad habit of duplicating code. If near-identical code is duplicated more than twice then it must be addressed even if it requires touching files not part of the current change set (Claude Code will look for excuses to weasel out - be strict)

Don't spend too long looking across the whole codebase for duplicated code but do look in related files that might contain the same code and do use search patterns that can identify duplication quickly.

## Shell Scripts

Check all `.sh` files against these patterns:

### JSON Construction

When building JSON in bash, use `jq` instead of manual string escaping. Manual escaping typically misses backslashes, newlines, and tabs.

**Bad:** Manual escaping (incomplete)
```bash
BODY="${MESSAGE//\"/\\\"}"
gh api ... --field body="$BODY"
```

**Good:** Use jq for JSON construction
```bash
BODY=$(jq -n --arg msg "$MESSAGE" '{body: $msg}')
gh api ... --input - <<< "$BODY"
```

### Unused Variables

Flag any variables that are extracted or assigned but never used.

```plaintext
Shell Script Violation: Unused variable
Code: [show variable assignment and lack of usage]
Fix: Remove the variable or use it
```

## Suggest updates

How can we update our coding conventions, documents and processes to prevent the type of errors you've identified? Provide suggestions if they seem relevant and useful.

## Workflow Reminder

After addressing any issues above, complete the task by following `docs/workflow/task-workflow.md` → Completing Tasks.
