docs/workflow/task-workflow.md, before:

# Task Workflow

> **MANDATORY:** Follow these instructions exactly. Do not run git/gh commands directly.

## Goal

Work through the entire lifecycle autonomously until you have a mergeable PR or are blocked. Present the user with a completed pull request that is green and ready for review.

*CRUCIAL*: Do not stop to ask the user for permission to do steps you are empowered to do autonomously. Never ask things like "Ready for /complete-task ?" - just do it if you have autonomy as defined in the table below.

## Git Worktrees

By default, `start-task.sh` creates a git worktree in a sibling directory (e.g., `../living-architecture-issue-40-desc/`). This allows working on multiple tasks in parallel without stashing or switching branches.

- Use `--no-worktree` to create a branch in the current repo instead
- Use `--no-issue=<name>` for ad-hoc tasks without a GitHub issue
- After the PR is merged, run `cleanup-task.sh` from within the worktree to remove it

## Lifecycle Steps

Autonomous = you can do this without user permission. Do not ask for permission, just do it.

| Step | Command | Permission |
|------|---------|------------|
| Create Tasks | `/create-tasks` | **User confirmation required** |
| Next Task (parallel-aware) | `/next-task` | Autonomous |
| List Tasks (JSON) | `./scripts/list-tasks.sh` | Autonomous |
| List Non-Milestone Tasks | `./scripts/list-tasks.sh --ideas` (or `--bugs`, `--tech`) | Autonomous |
| Start Task | `./scripts/start-task.sh <issue-number>` | **User confirmation required** |
| Amend Task | `./scripts/amend-task.sh <issue-number> "Amendment"` | Autonomous |
| Complete Task | `/complete-task` | Autonomous |
| Check PR Feedback | `pnpm nx run dev-workflow:get-pr-feedback` | Autonomous |
| Re-check PR | `/complete-task` | Autonomous |
| Post-Merge Completion | `/post-merge-completion` | Autonomous |
| Activate PRD | `./scripts/activate-prd.sh <prd-name>` | **User confirmation required** |
| Archive PRD | `./scripts/archive-prd.sh <prd-name>` | **User confirmation required** |

---

## Task Types

### Milestone Tasks (PRD-driven)

Work tied to a Product Requirements Document and tracked via GitHub milestones.

- **List:** `./scripts/list-tasks.sh`
- **Create:** `./scripts/create-task.sh`
- **When:** Breaking down PRD deliverables into implementable tasks

### Non-Milestone Tasks

Independent work not tied to a PRD. Three categories:

| Type | Label | List Command |
|------|-------|--------------|
| Ideas | `idea` | `./scripts/list-tasks.sh --ideas` |
| Bugs | `bug` | `./scripts/list-tasks.sh --bugs` |
| Tech Improvements | `tech improvement` | `./scripts/list-tasks.sh --tech` |

- **Create:** `./scripts/create-non-milestone-task.sh --type <idea|bug|tech>`
- **When:** Fixes, refactoring, tech debt, performance, exploratory work

---

## Task Creation

**MANDATORY:** All tasks MUST be created using approved scripts. Never use `gh issue create` or GitHub UI directly.

### PRD Task

```bash
./scripts/create-task.sh <milestone> <title> <body>
```

Body must contain all 10 sections (see `/create-tasks` skill documentation).

### Non-Milestone Task

```bash
./scripts/create-non-milestone-task.sh --type <idea|bug|tech> \
  <title> \
  <references> \
  <summary> \
  <full-details> \
  <acceptance-criteria>
```

Parameters:
- `--type` - Task type: `idea`, `bug`, or `tech`
- `title` - Concise task title
- `references` - GitHub issues (#123), PRs (#456), or explanation of origin
- `summary` - One paragraph: what and why
- `full-details` - Implementation approach, affected files, architectural context
- `acceptance-criteria` - Checkboxes defining "done"

---

## When to Use Each Step

**Create Tasks** — New work identified from a PRD. Break down deliverables into tasks.

**Next Task** — User says "next task", "what's next?", or asks what to work on:
- Run `/next-task` to analyze work streams and recommend from idle tracks
- Considers parallel work streams defined in PRD Parallelization sections
- Falls back to non-milestone tasks when all tracks are busy
- See [Parallel Work Streams](#parallel-work-streams) for details

**List Tasks** — Query raw task data (used by `/next-task` internally):
- All tasks: `./scripts/list-tasks.sh` (outputs JSON with milestone + non-milestone tasks)
- Specific type: `./scripts/list-tasks.sh --ideas` (or `--bugs`, `--tech`)

Propose a task to the user and ask them to confirm. Once confirmed, start the task (which provides the details), then create a plan. Do not create a plan before starting.

**Start Task** — User has confirmed they want to begin a specific task. Run this FIRST—it provides the issue details needed for planning. Do not create a plan or fetch issue details separately before running this script. Creates a git worktree by default.

**Amend Task** — Requirements changed or need clarification during development.

**Complete Task** — Implementation done, tests passing. Runs the complete autonomous pipeline: verify gate, code review, task-check, and PR submission.

**Check PR Feedback** — Get current PR status and unresolved feedback. Use this to see what needs addressing before a PR is mergeable.

**Re-check PR** — PR feedback addressed, needs CI verification. Run `/complete-task` again to re-run the full pipeline.

**Post-Merge Completion** — After PR is merged: (1) Run `/post-merge-completion` from the worktree to reflect on feedback (needs review files). (2) Create GitHub issues for any improvement opportunities identified. (3) Run `cleanup-task.sh` to remove the worktree. (4) Implement improvements by starting the new task via normal workflow—**never reuse the merged branch** (squash merges create stale merge bases).

**Activate PRD** — Moving a PRD from not started to active.

**Archive PRD** — All tasks in a PRD complete. Close the milestone.

---

## Parallel Work Streams

PRDs can define parallel tracks in their Parallelization section (Section 10). The `/next-task` command uses this to recommend tasks that don't conflict with ongoing work.

### How It Works

1. Runs `./scripts/list-tasks.sh` to get tasks from all active PRD milestones
2. Reads active PRD(s) from `docs/project/PRD/active/`
3. Parses Parallelization section to identify tracks (A, B, C, D, etc.)
4. Maps tasks to tracks via deliverable references in task body
5. Identifies busy tracks (tasks with assignees)
6. Recommends task from idle track first
7. Falls back to non-milestone tasks when all tracks are busy

### Track Mapping

Tasks reference deliverables in their body text:

- `PRD Section: M2.3` — Milestone 2, Deliverable 3
- `Traceability: M2-D3` — Milestone 2, Deliverable 3
- `Deliverable: D3.1` — Deliverable 3.1
- `Research-R1` — Research track

These references map to tracks defined in the PRD Parallelization section:

```text
TRACK A (Extraction):     M1 --> M2 --> D3.3 --> M5
TRACK B (Conventions):    D3.1 --> D3.2 --> D4.1
TRACK C (Research):       R1
```

### PRDs Without Parallelization

If a PRD lacks a Parallelization section, tasks are recommended sequentially (first unassigned task).

Commit message:

docs: update task-workflow.md to use YAML track examples
Replace free-form text track examples with YAML format and reference
the prd-track-format.md specification.

docs/workflow/task-workflow.md, after:

# Task Workflow

> **MANDATORY:** Follow these instructions exactly. Do not run git/gh commands directly.

## Goal

Work through the entire lifecycle autonomously until you have a mergeable PR or are blocked. Present the user with a completed pull request that is green and ready for review.

*CRUCIAL*: Do not stop to ask the user for permission to do steps you are empowered to do autonomously. Never ask things like "Ready for /complete-task ?" - just do it if you have autonomy as defined in the table below.

## Git Worktrees

By default, `start-task.sh` creates a git worktree in a sibling directory (e.g., `../living-architecture-issue-40-desc/`). This allows working on multiple tasks in parallel without stashing or switching branches.

- Use `--no-worktree` to create a branch in the current repo instead
- Use `--no-issue=<name>` for ad-hoc tasks without a GitHub issue
- After the PR is merged, run `cleanup-task.sh` from within the worktree to remove it

## Lifecycle Steps

Autonomous = you can do this without user permission. Do not ask for permission, just do it.

| Step | Command | Permission |
|------|---------|------------|
| Create Tasks | `/create-tasks` | **User confirmation required** |
| Next Task (parallel-aware) | `/next-task` | Autonomous |
| List Tasks (JSON) | `./scripts/list-tasks.sh` | Autonomous |
| List Non-Milestone Tasks | `./scripts/list-tasks.sh --ideas` (or `--bugs`, `--tech`) | Autonomous |
| Start Task | `./scripts/start-task.sh <issue-number>` | **User confirmation required** |
| Amend Task | `./scripts/amend-task.sh <issue-number> "Amendment"` | Autonomous |
| Complete Task | `/complete-task` | Autonomous |
| Check PR Feedback | `pnpm nx run dev-workflow:get-pr-feedback` | Autonomous |
| Re-check PR | `/complete-task` | Autonomous |
| Post-Merge Completion | `/post-merge-completion` | Autonomous |
| Activate PRD | `./scripts/activate-prd.sh <prd-name>` | **User confirmation required** |
| Archive PRD | `./scripts/archive-prd.sh <prd-name>` | **User confirmation required** |

---

## Task Types

### Milestone Tasks (PRD-driven)

Work tied to a Product Requirements Document and tracked via GitHub milestones.

- **List:** `./scripts/list-tasks.sh`
- **Create:** `./scripts/create-task.sh`
- **When:** Breaking down PRD deliverables into implementable tasks

### Non-Milestone Tasks

Independent work not tied to a PRD. Three categories:

| Type | Label | List Command |
|------|-------|--------------|
| Ideas | `idea` | `./scripts/list-tasks.sh --ideas` |
| Bugs | `bug` | `./scripts/list-tasks.sh --bugs` |
| Tech Improvements | `tech improvement` | `./scripts/list-tasks.sh --tech` |

- **Create:** `./scripts/create-non-milestone-task.sh --type <idea|bug|tech>`
- **When:** Fixes, refactoring, tech debt, performance, exploratory work

---

## Task Creation

**MANDATORY:** All tasks MUST be created using approved scripts. Never use `gh issue create` or GitHub UI directly.

### PRD Task

```bash
./scripts/create-task.sh <milestone> <title> <body>
```

Body must contain all 10 sections (see `/create-tasks` skill documentation).

### Non-Milestone Task

```bash
./scripts/create-non-milestone-task.sh --type <idea|bug|tech> \
  <title> \
  <references> \
  <summary> \
  <full-details> \
  <acceptance-criteria>
```

Parameters:
- `--type` - Task type: `idea`, `bug`, or `tech`
- `title` - Concise task title
- `references` - GitHub issues (#123), PRs (#456), or explanation of origin
- `summary` - One paragraph: what and why
- `full-details` - Implementation approach, affected files, architectural context
- `acceptance-criteria` - Checkboxes defining "done"

---

## When to Use Each Step

**Create Tasks** — New work identified from a PRD. Break down deliverables into tasks.

**Next Task** — User says "next task", "what's next?", or asks what to work on:
- Run `/next-task` to analyze work streams and recommend from idle tracks
- Considers parallel work streams defined in PRD Parallelization sections
- Falls back to non-milestone tasks when all tracks are busy
- See [Parallel Work Streams](#parallel-work-streams) for details

**List Tasks** — Query raw task data (used by `/next-task` internally):
- All tasks: `./scripts/list-tasks.sh` (outputs JSON with milestone + non-milestone tasks)
- Specific type: `./scripts/list-tasks.sh --ideas` (or `--bugs`, `--tech`)

Propose a task to the user and ask them to confirm. Once confirmed, start the task (which provides the details), then create a plan. Do not create a plan before starting.

**Start Task** — User has confirmed they want to begin a specific task. Run this FIRST—it provides the issue details needed for planning. Do not create a plan or fetch issue details separately before running this script. Creates a git worktree by default.

**Amend Task** — Requirements changed or need clarification during development.

**Complete Task** — Implementation done, tests passing. Runs the complete autonomous pipeline: verify gate, code review, task-check, and PR submission.

**Check PR Feedback** — Get current PR status and unresolved feedback. Use this to see what needs addressing before a PR is mergeable.

**Re-check PR** — PR feedback addressed, needs CI verification. Run `/complete-task` again to re-run the full pipeline.

**Post-Merge Completion** — After PR is merged: (1) Run `/post-merge-completion` from the worktree to reflect on feedback (needs review files). (2) Create GitHub issues for any improvement opportunities identified. (3) Run `cleanup-task.sh` to remove the worktree. (4) Implement improvements by starting the new task via normal workflow—**never reuse the merged branch** (squash merges create stale merge bases).

**Activate PRD** — Moving a PRD from not started to active.

**Archive PRD** — All tasks in a PRD complete. Close the milestone.

---

## Parallel Work Streams

PRDs can define parallel tracks in their Parallelization section (Section 10). The `/next-task` command uses this to recommend tasks that don't conflict with ongoing work.

### How It Works

1. Runs `./scripts/list-tasks.sh` to get tasks from all active PRD milestones
2. Reads active PRD(s) from `docs/project/PRD/active/`
3. Parses YAML track definitions in the Parallelization section (see `docs/conventions/prd-track-format.md`)
4. Maps tasks to tracks via deliverable references in task body
5. Identifies busy tracks (tasks with assignees)
6. Recommends task from idle track first
7. Falls back to non-milestone tasks when all tracks are busy

### Track Mapping

Tasks reference deliverables in their body text:

- `PRD Section: M2.3` — Milestone 2, Deliverable 3
- `Traceability: M2-D3` — Milestone 2, Deliverable 3
- `Deliverable: D3.1` — Deliverable 3.1
- `Research-R1` — Research track

These references map to tracks defined in the PRD Parallelization section as YAML:

```yaml
tracks:
  - id: A
    name: Extraction
    deliverables: [M1, M2, D3.3, M5]
  - id: B
    name: Conventions
    deliverables: [D3.1, D3.2, D4.1]
  - id: C
    name: Research
    deliverables: [R1]
```

### PRDs Without YAML Track Definitions

If a PRD lacks YAML track definitions in its Parallelization section, `list-tasks` will throw an error indicating which PRD needs track definitions added. See `docs/conventions/prd-track-format.md` for the required format.
